---
# Similarity Search PDF

## Table of Contents

- Introduction
- Features
- Installation
- Usage
- API Endpoint
- Configuration
- Dependencies
- License

---

## Introduction

Similarity Search PDF is a Flask-based API that enables users to query a PDF document using a question-answer approach. Leveraging text similarity techniques and OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model, this application assists in finding relevant answers within a PDF file based on user queries.

## Features

- PDF Text Extraction: Extracts text content from PDF files.
- TF-IDF Vectorization: Computes TF-IDF vectors to represent the PDF text data.
- Question-Answering Model: Uses GPT-3.5 to generate potential answers based on the similarity between user queries and PDF text segments.
- Top Similar Segments Retrieval: Retrieves the top relevant text segments from the PDF for generating answers.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Adinyk03/similarity_serach_pdf.git
    cd similarity_serach_pdf
    ```

2. Install dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Set up OpenAI API key:
   - Obtain an API key from OpenAI and set it in the `config.py` file.

## Usage

1. Start the Flask server:

    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```

2. Send a POST request to `/pdf` with JSON payload containing:

    ```json
    {
        "pdf_path": "path/to/your/pdf.pdf",
        "question": "Your question here?"
    }
    ```

3. Receive a JSON response with potential answers extracted from the PDF based on similarity with the provided question.

## API Endpoint

- Endpoint: `/pdf`
- HTTP Method: `POST`
- Request Payload:
    - `pdf_path`: Path to the PDF file for processing.
    - `question`: User query/question related to the content of the PDF.

- Response:
    - `answers`: Array containing potential answers generated by GPT-3.5.

## Configuration

Ensure the correct configuration in `config.py`, including the OpenAI API key.

## Dependencies

- Flask
- PyPDF2
- scikit-learn
- OpenAI's GPT-3.5 API

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
